```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types). CRDTs are preferred over Operational Transformation (OT) because they are inherently commutative, allowing clients to apply changes independently and converge without requiring a strict central sequencer, which significantly improves horizontal scalability and resilience.",
  "q2": "WebSocket. WebSocket provides a persistent, bidirectional, full-duplex connection between the client and the server, which is essential for low-latency, real-time synchronization of small, frequent changes (keystrokes, cursor movements). SSE is unidirectional and insufficient for collaborative editing.",
  "q3": "MongoDB or PostgreSQL (with JSONB support). MongoDB is excellent for flexible, schema-less document storage, fitting the nature of a document. PostgreSQL with JSONB is a strong alternative if strong transactional integrity and relational metadata are critical, offering the best of both worlds.",
  "q4": "Local Storage (IndexedDB) and Delta Synchronization. The client stores all local changes (deltas/patches) in IndexedDB. When connectivity is restored, the client sends a sequence of these local deltas to the server, which then merges them with the server's current state using the CRDT logic.",
  "q5": "Kafka or Redis Pub/Sub. Kafka is ideal for high-throughput, durable event streaming, ensuring that all connected WebSocket servers receive the same sequence of document updates. Redis Pub/Sub is simpler and faster for immediate, ephemeral real-time message routing.",
  "q6": "Layer 4 Load Balancing with Sticky Sessions and Pub/Sub Routing. Use a load balancer (e.g., AWS ALB) configured for sticky sessions to maintain the WebSocket connection. The backend services (WebSocket servers) must subscribe to the central message broker (Kafka/Redis) to ensure that updates originating from any client are broadcast to all other clients connected to any server.",
  "q7": "Dedicated Real-Time Channel/State Management. Cursor positions are treated as ephemeral, low-priority real-time events. Clients send small, frequent updates (e.g., `user_id: 123, position: 45, color: blue`). These events are broadcast via the WebSocket channel but are not treated as core document mutations, allowing for rapid, non-blocking updates.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 / JWT (JSON Web Tokens). Users authenticate via OAuth 2.0 (e.g., Google, corporate SSO). Upon successful login, the server issues a JWT, which is used for subsequent API calls and WebSocket connection authorization, ensuring stateless and secure access.",
  "q9": "Immutable Event Log (Append-Only Log). Every change (mutation) is recorded as an immutable event in a dedicated log (e.g., Kafka topic or a specialized database table). Version history is simply a query over this log, allowing the system to 'rewind' the document state at any point in time by replaying the events up to that version.",
  "q10": "Global CDN (Content Delivery Network) like Cloudflare or AWS CloudFront. Static assets (images, fonts, CSS, JS bundles) are hosted in an object storage service (S3) and served globally via a CDN to minimize latency and offload traffic from the application servers.",
  "q11": "Chunking and Document Segmentation. Large documents are broken down into logical, manageable chunks (e.g., sections, pages, or blocks). Each chunk is managed as a separate CRDT document or state object. The client only loads and synchronizes the chunks currently visible or being edited, reducing memory footprint and network load.",
  "q12": "Token Bucket Algorithm combined with Per-User/Per-Document Limits. Implement rate limiting at the API Gateway/Load Balancer level. Use the Token Bucket algorithm to allow bursts of activity while maintaining a sustainable average rate. Limits should be applied per user and per document to prevent abuse.",
  "q13": "Multi-Tiered Backup Strategy (3-2-1 Rule). 1. Real-time replication (Database cluster). 2. Daily snapshots to cold storage (S3 Glacier). 3. Geographic redundancy (Replicating the entire data store across multiple availability zones/regions).",
  "q14": "Asynchronous Uploads via Dedicated Storage Service. Clients upload large files directly to a cloud storage service (e.g., AWS S3 Pre-Signed URLs). The client then sends a small metadata message (containing the file URL and name) to the document server, which updates the document state. This prevents the application servers from becoming bottlenecks during large file transfers.",
  "q15": "Prometheus & Grafana (Metrics) + ELK Stack (Logging) + Jaeger/Zipkin (Tracing). Prometheus collects operational metrics (latency, throughput, error rates). Grafana visualizes these metrics. The ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) aggregates and analyzes application logs. Distributed tracing (Jaeger) tracks requests across microservices to pinpoint bottlenecks."
}
```