```json
{
  "q1": "CRDTs (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types) are ideal for handling concurrent edits without a central coordinator. For complex operations, a hybrid approach combining CRDTs and Operational Transformation (OT) can be used to balance simplicity and performance.",
  "q2": "WebSocket is the best choice for real-time sync because it enables bidirectional communication between the client and server, which is essential for collaborative editing. SSE is unidirectional and cannot handle client-to-server updates.",
  "q3": "MongoDB is the best choice for document storage due to its flexibility with unstructured data (JSON documents), support for horizontal scaling, and real-time update capabilities through change streams. It also handles high write loads well, which is essential for collaborative editing.",
  "q4": "Handle offline editing by storing the document locally in IndexedDB and queuing all pending operations. When the user reconnects, the queue is processed in batches, and changes are synchronized with the server using CRDTs or OT to resolve conflicts. Exponential backoff can be used to retry failed sync attempts.",
  "q5": "Apache Kafka is the best choice for real-time events due to its high throughput, fault tolerance, and scalability. It can handle the large volume of edit events, cursor movements, and other real-time updates efficiently.",
  "q6": "Implement horizontal scaling using a load balancer with sticky sessions (session affinity). This ensures that all WebSocket messages from a single user are routed to the same server, maintaining session state and enabling real-time collaboration without data loss.",
  "q7": "Use WebSocket to broadcast cursor position updates to all clients in real-time. Implement a last-write-wins strategy for concurrent cursor movements and adjust cursor positions based on document changes using OT or CRDTs to ensure accurate display across all users.",
  "q8": "Use OAuth 2.0 with JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for authentication. This allows users to log in via third-party providers (e.g., Google, Facebook) and provides stateless authentication, which is essential for horizontal scaling. JWT can also include user roles and permissions for fine-grained access control.",
  "q9": "Implement version history by storing each edit operation (using OT or CRDTs) in a time-ordered manner within the database. Store only the differences (diffs) between versions to save space. Users can browse the history by replaying operations up to a certain point in time, and revert by applying the previous version's state or discarding subsequent changes.",
  "q10": "Use a multi-CDN strategy (e.g., Cloudflare, Akamai, Fastly) to distribute static assets globally and reduce latency. Implement cache busting by hashing filenames based on content or version numbers to avoid serving stale content. For user-specific assets, use signed URLs or user-specific paths to ensure each user gets the correct version.",
  "q11": "Handle large documents by implementing pagination or lazy loading on the client side to fetch and render only the visible portion of the document. On the server side, use a database like MongoDB with efficient indexing and consider splitting the document into smaller chunks if it exceeds the size limits of a single document.",
  "q12": "Implement rate limiting using a token bucket algorithm to control the number of API calls and edits per user and per IP address. This prevents abuse such as excessive edits or API calls while allowing some variability in usage patterns. Rate limits can be adjusted based on user roles (e.g., higher limits for premium users).",
  "q13": "Implement automated hourly backups of the entire database using a distributed file system or cloud storage like S3. Store backups in multiple geographically distributed locations for redundancy and durability. Use a retention policy to keep backups for a specified period (e.g., 30 days) and allow users to restore their documents to any point within that period.",
  "q14": "Handle concurrent image uploads by implementing throttling (e.g., limit to 5 concurrent uploads per user) and using a queue system like Kafka or RabbitMQ to manage the upload process. Store images in a CDN (e.g., Cloudflare, AWS S3) and provide real-time feedback to users about upload status via WebSocket.",
  "q15": "Implement a monitoring and observability stack using Prometheus for metrics collection, Grafana for visualization, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for centralized logging, and Jaeger for distributed tracing. Set up alerts using Alertmanager or PagerDuty to notify the team about critical issues like high error rates or server failures."
}
```