```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types), specifically sequence CRDTs like YATA/RGA (e.g., Yjs/Automerge). They enable decentralized merging, robust offline support, and eliminate the need for a central Operational Transformation server while maintaining strong eventual consistency.",
  "q2": "WebSocket for bidirectional low-latency communication. Use a binary protocol (e.g., MessagePack) over WS to minimize overhead, with SSE/long-polling as fallback for restrictive corporate proxies.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL (with JSONB for document snapshots/metadata). It provides ACID compliance, robust JSON support, full-text search, and point-in-time recovery. Complement with an append-only log (e.g., Kafka or S3) for high-frequency operations if write volume exceeds single-node capacity.",
  "q4": "Local-first architecture: persist document state and pending operations in IndexedDB using CRDTs. On reconnection, perform a state-vector sync to exchange missing operations; merge conflicts automatically via CRDT semantics without user intervention.",
  "q5": "Redis Streams (or Apache Kafka). Redis Streams provides low-latency pub/sub with persistence and consumer groups for routing document operations across WebSocket server clusters. Kafka is preferred if strict durability and replayability of the entire operation history are required.",
  "q6": "Stateless WebSocket servers behind a layer-7 load balancer with a Redis Pub/Sub or Streams backplane. Use consistent hashing by document ID to route users to the same server instance where possible, reducing inter-server fan-out, while allowing any server to handle any connection via the shared backplane.",
  "q7": "Ephemeral presence channel over the same WebSocket (separate awareness message type). Broadcast cursor position, selection range, user color, and name to all clients in the document room. Do not persist to DB; use heartbeat timeouts (e.g., 30s) to clear stale cursors.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 + OpenID Connect (OIDC). Issue short-lived JWT access tokens (5-15 min) for API and WebSocket authentication (passed in Sec-WebSocket-Protocol or query param), with refresh token rotation. Enforce PKCE for SPAs.",
  "q9": "Event sourcing: store every operation in an immutable append-only log. Create periodic snapshots (every N operations or time interval) in S3/object storage. To view history, load the nearest snapshot and replay subsequent operations. Compress old logs to cold storage.",
  "q10": "Global CDN (e.g., CloudFront/Cloudflare) with hashed asset filenames (content-addressable) and immutable Cache-Control headers (max-age=31536000). Serve via HTTP/2 or HTTP/3 with Brotli compression. Use edge caching for static JS/CSS bundles.",
  "q11": "Chunk the document into a tree of blocks (paragraphs/pages) using a CRDT structure. Implement client-side virtualization (windowing) to render only the visible viewport. Lazy-load off-screen chunks from server on scroll, and compress inactive chunks in memory.",
  "q12": "Token bucket algorithm enforced at the API Gateway (per-user, per-document) and WebSocket server. Limit connection rate (e.g., 10/min), operation rate (e.g., 20 ops/sec burst), and payload size. Use edge rate limiting (Cloudflare/AWS WAF) for DDoS protection.",
  "q13": "Continuous Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) for PostgreSQL; cross-region read replicas with async replication. Immutable, versioned snapshots to S3 with Object Lock. Daily automated backup verification and quarterly disaster recovery drills. 3-2-1 rule.",
  "q14": "Client generates a UUID and inserts a placeholder immediately into the CRDT. Uploads directly to S3 via presigned multipart URLs. On completion, update the CRDT reference with the final URL. Deduplicate via content-hash (SHA-256) to avoid storing identical images twice.",
  "q15": "Prometheus + Grafana for metrics; ELK stack or Grafana Loki for centralized logging; Jaeger or OpenTelemetry for distributed tracing across services. Structured JSON logs with correlation IDs. Alertmanager/PagerDuty for SLO-based alerting. Real-time dashboards for active connections and document latency."
}
```