```json
{
  "q1": "CRDTs (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types). CRDTs are preferred over OT (Operational Transformation) or locking because they allow for decentralized, high-scale collaboration, guarantee eventual consistency, and inherently support offline editing without complex server-side coordination.",
  "q2": "WebSocket. WebSockets provide the necessary bidirectional, low-latency, persistent connection required for real-time, simultaneous editing and immediate synchronization of changes.",
  "q3": "A Distributed NoSQL Database (e.g., MongoDB, Cassandra, or DynamoDB). These databases offer high write throughput, horizontal scalability, and flexible schema necessary to store complex document structures and operational logs.",
  "q4": "Local Storage (IndexedDB/LocalStorage) combined with an Operational Transformation (OT) or CRDT queue. Edits are applied locally immediately, stored as operations, and queued for synchronization when connectivity is restored. The system must handle merging these queued operations upon reconnection.",
  "q5": "Apache Kafka. Kafka is ideal for acting as a durable, high-throughput message broker. It allows for event sourcing (storing every operation/delta), decoupling the real-time synchronization layer from the persistence layer, and enabling reliable delivery of events to all connected clients.",
  "q6": "Stateless Microservices behind a Load Balancer (e.g., AWS ALB/NGINX). WebSocket servers should be stateless, relying on the Message Broker (Kafka) and the Document Database for state. This allows for easy horizontal scaling by adding more server instances behind the load balancer.",
  "q7": "Lightweight, throttled WebSocket messages. Cursor positions are treated as high-frequency, low-priority events. They are sent over the WebSocket but are heavily rate-limited and potentially aggregated (e.g., sending only the latest position every 50ms) to prevent network flooding.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 and JSON Web Tokens (JWT). JWTs provide a stateless, secure way to authenticate users and authorize access to specific documents and operations, ensuring that every request/message is verified.",
  "q9": "Event Sourcing. Every user operation (insert, delete, format change) is recorded as an immutable event and stored in the Message Broker (Kafka). The current state of the document is reconstructed by replaying the sequence of events from the beginning.",
  "q10": "Content Delivery Network (CDN) like Cloudflare or AWS CloudFront. Used to cache static assets (UI bundles, fonts, images, CSS) geographically closer to the users, significantly reducing latency for asset loading.",
  "q11": "Document Chunking and Virtualization. Large documents are broken down into manageable chunks. Only the currently visible portion of the document is loaded into the client's DOM (virtualization). Efficient text data structures (like Rope data structures) should be used on the backend for fast manipulation of large text blocks.",
  "q12": "Layered Rate Limiting. 1. API Gateway (for authentication/basic request limits). 2. WebSocket Server (for message frequency limits per user/document). 3. Database Layer (for query limits and preventing denial-of-service attacks on persistence).",
  "q13": "Continuous Replication and Immutable Backups. Use cross-region replication for high availability and disaster recovery. Implement immutable backups (e.g., storing snapshots in S3 Glacier) to ensure data integrity and point-in-time recovery (PITR).",
  "q14": "Asynchronous Processing via Object Storage and Queues. Image uploads are handled asynchronously. The client uploads the image directly to Object Storage (S3/GCS). Once the upload is complete, a notification event is sent to the Message Broker, which triggers a worker service to update the document metadata with the image URL.",
  "q15": "Observability Stack: Metrics (Prometheus & Grafana), Logging (ELK Stack or Loki), and Distributed Tracing (Jaeger or OpenTelemetry). This combination allows for real-time monitoring of system health, detailed debugging of complex synchronization issues, and tracing the path of a single operation across microservices."
}
```