{"q1": "The free plan accommodates up to 5 users. Beyond that, you'll need to upgrade to a paid tier for additional team members.", "q2": "Yes, CSV and API import supported for seamless migration from Trello boards. This ensures all your cards, lists, and attachments transfer without manual re-entry.", "q3": "Native mobile apps are available for iOS and Android devices. You can manage projects on the go with full feature parity to the desktop experience.", "q4": "We guarantee a 99.9% uptime SLA for all paid plans. If we fall below this threshold, you're eligible for service credits as outlined in our terms.", "q5": "We implement AES-256 at rest, TLS 1.3 in transit encryption standards. This ensures your project data remains secure both on our servers and during transmission.", "q6": "SAML 2.0 and OIDC supported on Business plan and above for single sign-on. This allows your team to authenticate using your existing identity provider.", "q7": "Native integrations include Slack, GitHub, Jira, Google Workspace, and 50+ via Zapier. This connects your project management workflow with the tools you already use daily.", "q8": "File uploads are limited to 25MB per file, 10GB per project storage. For larger assets, we recommend using external storage links.", "q9": "A self-hosted deployment option is available on Enterprise plan only. This gives large organizations full control over their infrastructure and data residency.", "q10": "Navigate to Settings > Billing > Cancel, effective end of billing period to terminate your subscription. You'll retain access until the current cycle concludes.", "q11": "We offer a 20% discount on annual plans when you switch from monthly billing. This is automatically applied at checkout when selecting yearly payment.", "q12": "After cancellation, Data retained for 30 days, then permanently deleted from our servers. You can export your projects anytime during this grace period.", "q13": "Our RESTful API with rate limit of 1000 requests per minute enables custom integrations. Documentation and developer tokens are available in your account settings.", "q14": "Flexible frameworks include Kanban, Scrum, Waterfall, and hybrid methodologies. Teams can switch between approaches or combine elements within the same project.", "q15": "Reach us via Email, live chat (business hours), and phone (Enterprise only). Premium plans receive priority response times and dedicated account managers."}