```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types), specifically a JSON/sequence CRDT like Yjs or Automerge. CRDTs are mathematically guaranteed to converge without a central coordinator, making them superior to OT for offline support and serverless edge computing, while avoiding the complex transformation logic that makes OT error-prone.",
  "q2": "WebSocket (RFC 6455) for the primary transport with Engine.IO/Socket.IO fallback to HTTP long-polling. WebSockets provide the full-duplex, low-latency communication required for 60fps cursor tracking and sub-50ms operation propagation, whereas SSE lacks efficient bidirectional support for client-side awareness broadcasts.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL with JSONB columns for document metadata, access control lists, and operation logs, combined with Amazon S3 (or compatible object storage) for immutable document snapshots and binary assets. If forced to choose a single database: PostgreSQL, as its ACID guarantees and B-tree/GIN indexing handle the relational metadata and JSON operations log efficiently at scale.",
  "q4": "Implement an offline-first architecture using IndexedDB (via Dexie.js or idb-keyval) to persist the local CRDT state and pending operation queue. When reconnecting, the client performs a sync handshake: exchanging vector clocks with the server to determine missing operations, then merging local updates using the CRDT's built-in merge function without requiring server reconciliation.",
  "q5": "Redis Streams (not just Pub/Sub) acting as a persistent event log with consumer groups. Redis Streams provide durability (unlike Pub/Sub), ordered messaging, and horizontal scaling through consumer groups, allowing WebSocket server instances to shard document room processing while maintaining exactly-once operation delivery semantics.",
  "q6": "Stateless WebSocket server instances behind a load balancer with consistent hashing (e.g., using the document ID hash ring) to route all users editing the same document to the same server instance (document affinity). Cross-server fan-out for multi-document users is handled via the Redis backplane (Redis Pub/Sub or Streams) to broadcast operations to other servers managing the same document.",
  "q7": "Implement a separate 'presence' data channel using the same WebSocket but with aggressive throttling (50-100ms debounce) and ephemeral storage. Transmit cursor position as relative offsets (index-based) rather than absolute coordinates, including user ID, selection range (anchor/head), and user metadata (color/avatar). Store cursor state in a Redis Hash with TTL (e.g., 30s expiry) to auto-clear stale cursors.",
  "q8": "JWT (JSON Web Tokens) using RS256 (RSA signed) passed in the WebSocket handshake query parameter or Sec-WebSocket-Protocol header. Implement short-lived access tokens (15-minute expiry) with refresh token rotation. Validate tokens at connection time and periodically re-validate using the OAuth2 introspection endpoint or local JWT verification against a JWKS endpoint.",
  "q9": "Event Sourcing pattern: store an immutable append-only log of all CRDT operations in PostgreSQL (or Cassandra for extreme write throughput). Create periodic snapshots (every 1000 operations or 5 minutes) stored in S3 as compressed binary CRDT states. Version history is reconstructed by fetching the nearest snapshot and replaying subsequent operations from the log, enabling point-in-time recovery and infinite undo/redo.",
  "q10": "Use Cloudflare or AWS CloudFront as the primary CDN for static JavaScript bundles, CSS, fonts, and WebAssembly modules (CRDT logic). Enable Brotli/gzip compression and immutable cache headers (Cache-Control: public, max-age=31536000, immutable) for versioned filenames. Dynamic document data (WebSocket/HTTP API) bypasses the CDN to ensure real-time consistency.",
  "q11": "Implement block-based chunking using a tree-structured CRDT (Yjs Y.XmlFragment or ProseMirror's recursive node structure). Load only visible blocks into memory (virtual scrolling), fetching subsequent chunks on-demand via pagination. For the backend, shard large documents across multiple CRDT sub-documents (by page or section) that sync independently, merging them only at the presentation layer.",
  "q12": "Token Bucket algorithm implemented in Redis (using Lua scripts for atomicity) with separate limits: high burst for cursor movements (100/sec), moderate for text operations (10/sec), and low for image uploads (1/min). Apply rate limiting per-user-ID and per-document-ID to prevent abuse without penalizing legitimate collaborative editing. Return HTTP 429 with Retry-After headers.",
  "q13": "Multi-layer strategy: (1) PostgreSQL streaming replication to a read replica in a secondary availability zone with synchronous_commit=remote_apply for zero RPO; (2) Continuous archiving to S3 with Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) enabled; (3) Immutable S3 buckets with Object Lock (WORM) for monthly snapshot archives; (4) Periodic disaster recovery drills testing restoration from backups to RTO < 1 hour.",
  "q14": "Direct-to-Storage upload using pre-signed S3 URLs (PUT or multipart upload) to bypass application servers. The client first inserts a CRDT placeholder node with a UUID, uploads the binary to S3, then broadcasts the final URL via the CRDT update operation. Handle concurrent uploads by treating image metadata as a LWW (Last-Write-Wins) register while the S3 object keys (UUID-based) remain immutable, ensuring no write collisions occur.",
  "q15": "OpenTelemetry (OTel) standard with Prometheus for metrics collection, Grafana for visualization, and Jaeger for distributed tracing across WebSocket servers and database calls. Use Loki for log aggregation. Implement custom RED metrics (Rate, Errors, Duration) for CRDT sync latency and operation convergence time. Add Real User Monitoring (RUM) using Web Vitals to track client-side interactivity delays (INP - Interaction to Next Paint)."
}
```